Now we need to set priorities.
Why?
Because no IT team ever seems to have enough time or resources, of course.
And it so crucial to your success and your team's
morale to have good solid priorities.
So when you are out getting the business goals and
requirements from your customers,
you are also getting their priorities of their requirements and goals,
don't forget that.
That is crucial.
Priorities are so important to retrieve,
figure out, understand,
and help guide your team and your resources to successful conclusions.
They'll be times when you're going to be giving presentations to maybe your
manager or your manager's manager or the influencers,
such as the business leaders, steering groups,
business focal points, et cetera.
Just a little side bar here, remember,
you're a manager now and you're leading a team,
you're going to need to get out there and communicate and probably give
lots more presentations than you've ever done before.
So let me tell you what executives do not want to see,
and what I mean by executives,
those influencers that were higher up the food chain,
such as the business leaders, steering groups,
et cetera.
They don't want to see this.
In fact, probably no one wants to see this.
Now again,
this may be a great tool at a low level for a project or something like that,
that's great, use that tool,
but they do not want to see this in terms of priorities and
dependencies and if you can't see this slide,
that's the whole point, no one can see this slide.
So let me show you in the next couple slides just a very easy simple way
for executives or the senior people that influence your company to
understand the priorities and what your team is doing.
This is important.
So here's an example of prioritizing IT projects,
and I'm first going to kind of give you the structure and
the approach that I'd like to follow.
So first I'm going to have priorities,
here in this column will be Priority 1 projects or activities,
Priority 2 projects and activities, and then lastly Backlog,
all the other projects and activities that I'm not working on.
We really don't need Priority 3, 4, 5, 6,
because that's really irrelevant because we're so busy.
And as priority 1 projects or priority 2 projects kind of lighten up,
we'll go the backlog and move them forward.
Okay,
then below that on the left are going to be where we list our IT
projects or activities for each priority column.
So in the Priority 1 column there'll be all the projects and activities,
go here for that, Priority 2, same thing,
and lastly Backlog.
The Backlog will probably have the longer list.
And remember, if you're into Agile and Scrum, it's always inspect and adapt.
So as priority 1 and 2 items get worked,
we're going to review the backlog list, work with the customers,
and figure out which ones go where.
And how I do it in the shop is everyone's on priority 1,
if you get stuck or you're waiting for some information,
you drop into priority 2 and start working those.
And usually between the two of those columns of activities,
you're team is pretty darn busy. So now let's go into a little more detail on how we're going to lay this out.